---
title: whmeetup: My Takeaway and Tech Growth in the Panhandle
tags:
  - whmeetup
  - community
  - economic growth
  - eastern panhandle
  - white house
categories:
  - talks
  - meetup
---

I spent Friday March 17th at the first ever
[Tech Meetup at the White House](https://www.whitehouse.gov/blog/2015/04/14/friday-tech-meetup-white-house-0) as a
representative of
[Panhandle Web Tech Meetup Group](http://www.meetup.com/Panhandle-Web-Tech/), a Tech Meetup I started at the beginning
of this year in Martinsburg, WV. For those
of you who don't know, a Tech Meetup is group of people in the technology field get together to share knowledge and
talk shop. At the White House, We spent the day discussing a wide range of topics such as:

 - How to run a better meetup
 - How to provide economic opportunity to under-served populations 
 - How to engage with less technical people
 - How to encourage diversity in the community
 - Efforts of government and organizations around the country to encourage interest in tech with young people
 
The gentleman that conducted the meetup encouraged everyone to share actions they wanted to take as result of the meetup.
At the time, I had some ideas for activities that our group could do to help each other learn and get our
families involved with the group.

I spent the next 2 days at Virginia Beach for an "Elite Retreat" for my wife's business of selling essential oils
through [dōTERRA](http://www.doterra.com/#/en). I met some really hard workers. People who have built a business on helping people sell an
experience though holistic applications of essential oils. There where a lot of pep-talks and team building exercises.
Anyone who knows me knows that I am typically an introvert. This experience really took me out of my comfort zone.
However, it showed me that I am capable of connecting with people. The self-help style of pep talks made reflect further
upon the meetup at the White House. This extended weekend was a catalyst for an AHA! moment on the drive home. 

AHA! Berkeley County is the FASTEST GROWING county in the state of West Virginia. We all know that most people either
work from home or commute to city. WHERE ARE ALL THE TECH JOBS???? Opportunity is extremely limited in the area.
I strongly believe that we (the meetup group) need to find a way to engage with the community at large to figure out
how to bring more opportunity to the area. This Tuesday, I am going to spend 15-30 minutes before the main presentation
giving a high level overview of the White House meetup and gauge the group's interest in trying to figure out
how we can engage with the community to encourage economic growth.

I don't know what our little meetup group can do to affect economic growth. But I do know that someone needs to be
a cheerleader for bringing tech jobs to the area. To be fair, such organizations and individuals might already exist. I
 have yet to find any.

Martinsburg and Berkeley County is uniquely positioned to become a little tech hub. Our close proximity to Baltimore
and DC means that we already have a large workforce that currently commutes. We have many brand new office buildings on the
North end of Martinsburg that sit half empty. We have large abandoned buildings downtown. We need some sort of a
catalyst to show the world that we have a tech community. Startups need to know that there is a work pool here
that can help them build their products. Existing companies need to know that there is inexpensive property and
a strong community that can provide a skilled workforce.

I'm sharing this with you because I feel passionate about this. I'm going to make this happen so long as the
Eastern Panhandle is my home. I am tired of new bars, strip clubs and gambling parlors. Imagine that abandoned house
becoming a tech startup instead of a used car lot. Imagine that empty field becoming a satellite site for a fortune 500
tech company instead of a polluting factory. Imagine that old factory becoming a [Tech Center]() instead of rotting away
and attracting graphite. We can do
this. We can show the world that Martinsburg and the Eastern Panhandle is serious about participating in the tech economy.
